//I see some words that do not really need to be updated because they are already understandable.
//But firmament vs expanse vs dome vs space vs sky vs canopy vs horizon vs vault just wow the most controversial word no doubt רָקִיעַ râqîyaʻ, raw-kee'-ah; from H7554 which my thoughts is to update firmament to american english word to better explain the word firmament, the shape of a bow or rainbow shows the shape of the firmament or expanse its a arc.



genesis 1

kjv
kjvu
kjvu*

(1) In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
(1) In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.

(2) And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.
(2) The earth was without form, and void; and darkness _was on the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved on the face of the waters.
*(2) And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was on the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved on the face of the waters.

And the earth vs The earth
was vs _was
upon vs on

(3) And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
(3) And God said, "Let there be light"; and there was light.
*(3) And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.


(4) And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness.
(4) God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness.
*(4) And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness.

And God saw vs God saw


(6) And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.
(6) Then God said, "Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters."
*(6) And God said, Let there be a arc in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.

And God said vs Then God said
firmament vs arc

(7) And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so.
(7) So God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament; and it was so.
*(7) And God made the arc, and divided the waters which were under the arc from the waters which were above the arc: and it was so.

And God made vs So God made
firmament vs arc

(8) And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the morning were the second day.
*(8) And God called the arc Heaven. And the evening and the morning were the second day.

firmament vs arc


(9) And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.
(9) Then God said, "Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together to one place, and let the dry land appear"; and it was so.
*(9) And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.

And God said vs Then God said

(11) And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.
(11) Then God said, "Let the earth bring forth grass, herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after its kind, whose seed is in itself, on the earth"; and it was so.
*(11) And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after its kind, whose seed is in itself, on the earth: and it was so.

And God said vs Then God said
the herb vs herb
his vs its

(12) So the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after his kind: and God saw that it was good.
(12) So the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after its kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after its kind; and God saw that it was good.
*(12) So the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after its kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after its kind; and God saw that it was good.

his vs its

(14) And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years:
(14) Then God said, "Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years;
*(14) And God said, Let there be lights in the arc of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years:

And God said vs Then God said
firmament vs arc

(15) And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so.
(15) And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth"; and it was so.
*(15) And let them be for lights in the arc of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so.

firmament vs arc

(16) And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also.
(16) So God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night; he made the stars also.
*(16) And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also.

And God made vs So God made

(17) And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth,
(17) God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light on the earth,
*(17) And God set them in the arc of the heaven to give light upon the earth,

And God set vs Then God set
firmament vs arc

(18) And to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.
(18) and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness. God saw that it was good.
*(18) And to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.

And vs and
and God saw vs God saw


(20) And God said, "Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creatures that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven."
(20) And God said, "Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creatures that have life, and birds that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven."
*(20) And God said, "Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creatures that have life, and birds that may fly above the earth in the open arc of heaven."

fowl vs birds
firmament vs arc


(21) And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good.
(21) And God created great whales, and every living creature that moves, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged bird after his kind; and God saw that it was good.
*(21) And God created great whales, and every living creature that moves, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged bird after its kind; and God saw that it was good.

his vs its 

(24) And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind: and it was so.
(24) And God said, "Let the earth bring forth living creatures after their kind, cattle, and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind"; and it was so.
*(24) And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after its kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after its kind: and it was so.

forth living vs forth the living
his vs their vs its

(25) And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creeps upon the earth after his kind: and God saw that it was good.
(25) And God made the beasts of the earth after their kind, and cattle after their kind, and everything that creeps upon the earth after their kind; and God saw that it was good.
*(25) And God made the beasts of the earth after its kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creeps on the earth after its kind; and God saw that it was good.

his vs their vs its

(26) And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.
(26) And God said, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth."
*(26) And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth.

fowl vs birds
creepeth vs creeps


(27) So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.
(27) So God created mankind in his own image; in the image of God he created them. He created them male and female.
*(27) So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him; male and female he created them.

man vs mankind 
created he him vs he created them vs he created him

(28) And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveeth upon the earth.
(28) And God blessed them, and God said to them, "Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves upon the earth."
*(28) And God blessed them, and God said to them, "Be fruitful, and multiply, and refill the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves upon the earth."

unto vs to
replenish vs fill vs refill
fowl vs birds
moveeth vs moves


(29) And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed , which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree , in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.
(29) And God said, "Behold, I have given YOU every herb bearing seed upon the face of all the earth, and every tree in which the fruit has seeds. They shall be food for YOU.
*(29) And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed , which is on the face of all the earth, and every tree , in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for food.

you vs YOU
upon vs on
meat vs food

(30) And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for meat: and it was so.
(30) And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the air, and to everything that creeps upon the earth, wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for food"; and it was so.
*(30) And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the air, and to everything that creeps on the earth, wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for food"; and it was so.

creepeth vs creeps
upon vs on

(31) And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.
(31) And God saw everything that he had made, and, behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.
*(31) And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.

every thing vs everything